the history of world war ii is one of
those peculiar topics
where the teacher or professor never
needs to pause to explain to the class
why does this matter students never
raise their hands
and demand to know why do we need to
study this at all
if any of you in the audience know what
it's like to teach math
if you know what it's like to teach
french grammar
you know what it's like to have students
put up their hands and demand to know
why are you teaching this to me anyway
why does this matter somehow
it's very clear to everyone that our
understanding
our narrative that we've construed in a
certain world about
what happened in world war ii and why it
matters and what it means to us today
this is something quite integral to each
of us
individually in how we fashion our own
political identity
in the 21st century and for many
countries around the world
their sense of identity and purpose is
still to this day formed by world war ii
oh you you think i'm just talking about
the united states you think i'm just
talking about australia and canada or
or germany or france have you heard of
india
have you ever thought about the way
world war ii is linked to
the decline and fall of the british
empire and how those countries
achieved independence have you thought
for a minute about what world war ii
means to them
it's a big deal it's it's been a big
deal for a while
and it's going to continue to be a big
deal and of course
what you mostly see on the internet is
right-wing demagogues who are
challenging
the official narrative about what
happened in world war ii uh
for completely insincere and frankly
evil
reasons and most of us who are maybe
moderates
pragmatists in the center or left of
center
most of us don't ever stop to think
maybe there's really some benefit
for us also in going back and
re-examining the roots of fascism
the origins of nazi ideology in europe
and
in evaluating the extent to which we
ourselves maybe were raised
with propaganda even if that propaganda
were constructed and construed and
taught to us
with no bad intentions whatsoever give
you an example
my father had this
aesthetic sense that
to refer to adolf hitler as a madman to
refer to fascism or nazism as
insanity uh was childish that that was a
sort of
unsophisticated redneck view of history
whereas he felt and he conditioned me
to think also uh it was erudite
and sophisticated to evaluate
what adolf hitler did as if it were a
rational response
to economic conditions after world war
one this may sound familiar to a lot of
you in rationalizing
that chapter of history you are ipso
facto
necessarily sweeping under the rug
occult elements esoteric
elements spirituality
and remarkably in the year 2020
it's very clear to say
those spiritual esoteric occult elements
are the elements now being revived
that are popular once again in the form
preserved in the writings of julius
[Music]
evila
i prefer to pronounce his name evola
so that it rhymes with ebola but sadly
the name is pronounced
julius evola
here's a google engram chart showing you
the resurgence in popularity
since the year 2000 and and keep in mind
google engram is only showing you how
many times this name appeared
in print in books this is not capturing
how many times this guy is being
discussed
on podcasts on youtube
on websites like the original
alt-right.com
the new age person never wants to go
deep beyond the surface level
feel-good aspects of their philosophies
which makes it the perfect religion for
the new world order because
it allows its followers to be internally
detached it gives them a way
to spiritually amuse themselves but
nothing more
now the difference with uh tradition is
that there are several schools of fully
developed thought where
the path requires a real effort and will
challenge the person to grow and develop
with any traditional path you have to
put in actual work and there's no easy
victories
no fluffy feel-good answers
so some aspects of tradition might be
very appealing to new agers
like the ones who quote the buddha and
put statues of him in their gardens but
it's ultimately just a fashion statement
for them to them the buddha was just
this witty guy
who makes them feel good but as soon as
buddhism starts demanding genuine effort
from them
they move on to the next feel-good thing
one of the reasons why
his name is bandy devotes so much on
social media
is that he's one of the few remaining
philosophers of nazism whose name will
not result in you
immediately getting banned from these
same
social media websites and and why is
that
it's because julius evela unlike
unlike a guy like rosenberg right
rosenberg was more influential when they
were both alive he was more of an
official
spokesperson for and mouthpiece for the
nazi party and he also
wrote about so-called spiritual racism
very closely comparable uh uh
this guy evola he kind of has a
peg that he can hang his hat on as a
buddhist scholar as a white guy
who got inspired by buddhism and
converted
to buddhism as a guy who was on some
kind of spiritual
journey of self-discovery i don't
sympathize
i really don't but this has been crucial
to the enduring
respectability of his works and yeah
i've got to put asterisk next to
respectability but he's certainly
regarded as much more respectable today
than
any other face or name we're going to
talk about in this video
why bother with evela given that he's a
scary looking nazi collaborator that
most people have never heard of
well two reasons the first is that evola
is
more important than you might think many
of the prominent figures of the
alt-right
including steve bannon richard spencer
and some more obscure guys on youtube
and elsewhere
cite evola as a major influence the
second reason to bother with evola
is that even people who oppose his
politics
nonetheless recognize his work for its
erudition and
influence people like herman hess
umberto echo
and carl jung so with the contemporary
salience of evolism having been noted
for the record
when are these issues going to come up
in conversation let's just pretend the
class is demanding no
why does this matter number one
linguistics
number two politics number three
religion
namely buddhism hinduism and new
religious
movements which is the polite academic
term
for cults i would say that
the majority of people who talk about
the origins of aryan race theory
are dealing with linguistics and if you
look this up on youtube
you're going to see a lot of really
mealy-mouthed
evasive uncomfortable discourse about
this issue
and i think in the next 10 20 years
you're gonna see a similar sort of
cowardice
creep into a lot of european discussions
of what happened in world war ii
because there's a very loud and angry
voice of dissent on this issue
coming from modern india because
uh i'll say it's only in passing but it
should be realized
that there has never been a
more politically relevant
theory of of history and of linguistics
than the aryan invasion theory
in the 19th century it was already used
by the british
to justify their colonialism
in the 20th century it became the main
paradigm for the nazi worldview
and then in india it has been used by a
number of political movements
the ambedkar rights the dravidianists
and also by the christian missionaries
in order to divide and belittle
in the society so against that
hindu nationalists have tried to support
the refutation of an aryan invasion and
therefore the
support of the
indian indian homeland theory
there are more than a billion people in
india who demand to be heard
they're certainly being heard here on
the internet and increasingly they're
going to be heard in
classrooms and western universities and
high schools there are people in india
who say
hey hey hey you're telling this history
about the aryan race theory whether
that's in linguistics or
pertaining to nazism in specific hey
that's our history
how dare you you know and the indians
will very specifically say
that they're sick and tired of so-called
white european experts
weighing in on this and they have their
own story to tell
so again the history of world war ii is
now going to be
rewritten re-examined reconsidered
partly just in light of the increasing
multiculturalism
of the context in which it is being
taught in traditional symbolism
the supernatural principle was conceived
as masculine and the principle of nature
and of becoming as feminine in hellenic
terms the one
which is in itself complete and
self-sufficient
is regarded as masculine conversely the
dyad the principle of differentiation
and of the other then self and thus the
principle of desire and movement
is regarded as feminine in hindu terms
the impassable spirit purusha is
masculine
while prokhti the active matrix of every
conditioned form
is feminine the far eastern tradition
has expressed
equivalent concepts through the cosmic
duality of yin yang
the self-evidently shocking history of
aryan race discourse is whitewashed
by linguists for the purpose of just
getting on with teaching linguistics
honestly i don't sympathize but if you
put yourself in the mindset of someone
who has a phd in linguistics
and they want to talk about vowel
changes and
how you historically analyze different
types of consonant sounds
they don't want to get into a political
discussion of the significance
of aryan race theory and the connection
between linguistics
and frankly nazism so yes there is a
great deal of whitewashing going on
this story begins with a guy named
marcus van boxhorn
and really note the date of his death
there
1650 so he dies about
200 years before this issue really kind
of
explodes in the newspapers of europe and
it's worth noting
that at that early stage this was a
pretty innocuous
and harmless theory developed in
response to
some astonishing discoveries the writing
of the most ancient sacred texts of
hinduism and buddhism in the sanskrit
language and the pali language
respectively is unbelievably remote
from western europe both geographically
and chronologically what a shocking
discovery
to find that these are written in a
language that's really very closely
related to latin
what boxhorn did was take this startling
revelation
and simply attribute the common origin
of these languages to some ancient
ancestors
a set of ancestors he supposed might be
the scythians
or someone similar to the scythians if
you've never heard of the scythians
they have left us a legacy of really
beautiful little metal statues
little urns and vases that you can see
in museums
around europe and frankly around the
world all my life i've seen
little reminders of ancient scythian
culture nothing particularly nothing
particularly special about them
and really it would be pretty harmless
if people in france and people in russia
felt that they had some common ancestry
in this ancient people called the
scythians
it's not true they're not you know the
genesis
of the aryan language family or the
so-called aryan race or anything else
but really step one of this hypothesis
is so innocuous it's hard to imagine how
this leads
more than 200 years later to genocide
the next name on this slide william
jones is the one
hated with the most intensity and the
most passion in india does he really
deserve all this hate
doesn't matter he is the man in the
newspapers of india still today in the
21st century
most commonly blamed for developing or
propounding or popularizing
aryan race theory the aryan migration
hypothesis etc etc
all the evils of british colonialism are
attributed to william jones and
everything wrong with
india today was invented by william
jones again
dead in 1794 still
still quite remote from the events of
world war ii then the third name
coming in a bit closer here is franz
bopp anyone teaching a linguistics
course would want to run through this
box horn jones bop just deal with the
dry
phonological facts just deal with the
history of the etymological discoveries
and they don't want to talk about nazis
they especially don't want to talk about
the occult
esoteric and spiritual aspects of nazism
and how these are bundled up with and
originate from
this crazy linguistic theory the rise of
german nationalism
and ultimately of nazi imperialism
coincides with
co-ops and takes advantage of the
decline
of the austro-hungarian empire
in the austro-hungarian empire one of
the most important forms of racism
was racism against slavic people
specifically
the hatred of slavic people by german
people
german people who wanted to imagine
themselves being superior to the slavs
take a look at this map green
yellow red blue see how it's color coded
which one of those colors on the map do
you think indicates the
aryan race discovered by this linguistic
hypothesis
the answer is all of them
one of many things that fundamentally
doesn't make sense about aryan race
theory
whether you think of it linguistically
or biologically
was that it didn't work for the germans
it didn't
actually proclaim them or establish them
as superior
to the people they most hated the people
they were both planning to be at war
with and
actually were at war you know from
hitler's minecon
forward the big plan was for germany to
have an empire achieved by conquering
what was then
russia the ukraine etc eastern europe
so if that's the game plan why don't you
invent
some kind of quote unquote scientific
theory of racism
that actually makes sense for your
political objectives this
never did if anything the aryan race
hypothesis would lead to russians and
germans
embracing one another as brothers but
of course yeah it just doesn't make
sense
looking further afield on this map of
course uh
includes places like france i mean
wouldn't the germans
prefer to have a racial theory that
makes them superior to the french
don't think about it too much uh the
italians and oh yes yes y'all
northern india and iran
so this is a theory that if taken
seriously would declare the brotherhood
of the people of northern europe with
northern india and iran
and at the same time the germans are
trying to make a big deal out of having
blonde hair and blue eyes but the people
of
greece and italy and iran and india
they're not
they're not real you see there are a
whole lot of things here that right off
the bat
just don't make sense i suppose you
could say
my major thesis here is that we
shouldn't be surprised
at just how spiritual just how
superstitious the neo-nazism of our own
times is given
that nazism proper originated in this
way
from a spiritualist and not scientific
movement at the beginning of the video i
complained that my own father and my
schoolteachers
tended to emphasize a kind of economic
rationalism that somehow the economic
conditions following after world war one
produced the nazi movement fascism in
germany
but much more broadly and much more
deeply it's profoundly
important to appreciate that darwinism
and scientific racism were utterly
irrelevant
to people like joseph arthur de gabino
in the 21st century school teachers
scientists politicians and quite
possibly our own parents
want to caution us against scientific
racism
they want to caution us against the
tendency towards
social darwinism but that tends to
profoundly misrepresent this history
[Music]
[Applause]
uh uh welcome to the show um i i want to
confess
that i did not know your name on monday
in our times
nothing could be more common than to
observe
a political leader rise to fame on the
basis of their appearance
their charm or maybe even the quality of
their voice
when they're giving lectures i think
there's no doubt
that the sex appeal of alexandria
ocasio-cortez
has been a crucial part of her meteoric
rise to fame as a major
political leader in the united states of
america bernie sanders
did not have this advantage in the same
way
in the 19th century there is this
strange
difficult to pin down quality of
charisma
that exists in the written word there is
nothing
scientific about his writing his claims
about the history of chinese
civilization or the history of
athens in rome would have been laughed
out of university lecture halls
even in his own time however still to
this day
he is regarded as one of the greatest
novelists in the history of france
whatever quality it is that makes
someone's writing appealing
he had it he had so much of this
peculiar difficult to define
charisma that he would shape the future
of the next hundred years
and literally guide millions of people
to their deaths
gabino was a man who lived out of step
with his times indeed he even was a
little bit too much
of a living anachronism to be compatible
with the fully developed nats ideology
that would ensue after him under his
tutelage we might say
he went to persia and he saw persia
as a fallen civilization why was it
fallen
because he imagined simply in the same
way that he imagined that
china was founded by aryan people that
there had
been this other race of people who were
pure-blooded and brilliant and good and
virtuous
who had created a wonderful civilization
there but now here he was
in the ruins of what remained of persian
civilization
after that founding race had been lost
basically through intermarriage there
can be no doubt
that part of gabino's popular appeal
part of the reason why he sold so many
copies of this book and influenced so
many people for the next hundred years
was that he had visited these places
himself and spoke about them
both with a certain kind of um poetic
license
and also with the self-confidence as
someone who had seen these wonders of
the world
face to face obviously in the 1850s
very few people had traveled to greece
very few people had traveled to persia
very few people had traveled to brazil
and very very very few people had
traveled to
all of these places and could make
comparative statements about them
however there were innumerable
publications
by travelers and explorers competing on
that same bookshelf
it's important to keep in mind to hold
the audience here there was nothing
convincing about gabino's work
people chose to believe it people were
eager to accept this mythology
that was as i think you can see from the
screenshots just self-evidently
made up off the top of this guy's head
wikipedia provides a remarkably well
researched overview of the life and
times of joseph arthur de gabano
however when it comes to history you
always have to look at primary sources
there's nothing quite like the real
thing if you do look at gobindo's own
writing
you'll find there are many distinctive
aspects of nancy doctrine
that are absent from his work and these
would be supplied by the author
houston stewart chamberlain very soon
thereafter
following in governor's footsteps for
one thing there's
absolutely no optimism about the future
in governor's work there is no
possibility whatsoever
of racial regeneration national
upliftment of something better or
something positive coming
for the german people for the french
people for anyone really
he doesn't see anything positive in
european imperialism
expanding and conquering africa and
india he only sees
everything getting worse and worse he
sees all of civilization as
declining after it hit an early pinnacle
in you know a few select places like
ancient athens ancient rome um
he's a big fan of persia if you hadn't
guessed so on and so forth
this is a view of the world in perpetual
decline
throughout all of his works there is
very little emphasis
on anti-semitism i can't claim that
there is zero
anti-semitism in his works he says some
remarkably
positive things about jews here and
there though and his books are
certainly lacking the conspiratorial
view
that everything wrong with western
civilization is due to jewish influence
that would come soon enough from houston
stuart chamberlain
finally his lifelong obsession was with
his
own status as an aristocrat and his
vision of the world where everyone is
getting stupider and stupider
due to racial miscegenation but here and
there there are isolated extraordinary
individuals
who through the institution of
aristocracy have maintained the purity
of their blood and are therefore
superior to everyone else
just as he felt he was superior to
everyone else himself
this profoundly aristocratic view of the
world
is actually incompatible with nazism
which is fundamentally a pro-poor
folk-ish movement it's about the people
the masses as a whole and obviously
mobilizing and trying to get you know
political support from exactly the kind
of people that
gabineau utterly despises you really
need to assess this phenomenon in
spiritual terms in occult terms
because the way that the first wave of
smash hit philosophers
thought about this was much more
spiritual
than it was biological if you were to
ask the question
why did anyone take this seriously
probably
the answer just is that it was
flattering to the germans they probably
just liked the idea that there was this
erudite
philological expert telling them that
they were the master race
at a time when the germans weren't
really the masters of much of anything
the only way to make sense out of this
is to look at it
spiritually is to analyze it as an
esoteric
cult phenomenon because from day one
that's what it was
guys like gabano didn't just regard
ancient iran as remote geographically
they didn't just think about ancient
greece and ancient rome
as remote geographically also they also
thought of it chronologically
their idea of the aryan race was
that the great founders of these
civilizations
had been members of these races but the
current
inhabitants of italy the current
inhabitants
of greece the current inhabitants of
iran they didn't represent that race
at all oh no it was only the mystical
ancient
founders who have been part of it and
for absolutely no reason
um those same ancient mystical founders
they're alive and well in
germany today makes absolutely no sense
it's just mythology there's no
but governor actually went to all these
places he wrote a series of hit books
he's the first smash hit author writing
this insane aryan race theory stuff
he actually went to and lived in iran he
learned to speak the language to some
extent he lived in greece
for several years he disapproved of and
condemned everything about the greeks
he said they'd completely lost their
ancient glory and he attributed this to
their
degeneration from their formal racial
status he traveled around the world
as nutcase eccentric everywhere
projecting onto the world around him
these theories he made up in his own
head almost
any political program can be summarized
in terms of a simple statement of
what do you want to accomplish and what
are you willing to do to get there
you can summarize what bernie sanders is
all about by saying hey
the followers of bernie sanders want
free health care
what are they willing to do to get it
raise taxes the followers of bernie
sanders want the united states of
america to have a european style
university system with very cheap or
free tuition what are they willing to do
to get it they're willing to reduce
military spending by 90 percent
very simple way to approach politics
what is the objective
what are you willing to do to get there
for quite a long time before the rise of
adolf hitler
the people of germany were influenced by
great world empires like that of england
france spain and to some extent even
russia
they looked at the map of the world they
saw that the united kingdom
the british empire had a massive
overtly genocidal empire in australia
in canada to some extent in india
and they said me too they saw all the
evils and horrors of the british empire
and they felt jealous
they wanted to have that for themselves
as you know hitler's proposal
specifically
was to conquer eastern europe so eastern
europe would become
for germany what the united states was
for england
that was the plan there were other
proposals what the italian fascists were
trying to do was to build a new empire
by conquering little bits and pieces of
north africa and what we now call the
middle east or the levant
same kind of thing it was imperialist
envy
they looked at a map they saw the
grandeur of these huge colored in areas
constituting the british empire the
french empire etc
and they felt left out and they were
willing to make up or believe almost
any lie in order to get there so you
have a complete nut case like gabino
who by the way if you couldn't guess
from the name wasn't even german
you have a complete not case like gabano
telling you that the germans are the
greatest people in the world and they
should go forth and conquer the rest of
the world and create this empire
there were a whole lot of germans who
were eager to hear it and were eager to
believe
the most crazy nonsense imaginable
whether it be
pro-christian or anti-christian
pro-pagan
or trying to return to the you know
virtues of ancient rome
a million different flavors of this came
out after gabano the other name you see
on this slide
houston stuart chamberlain is a great
example of someone who worked
with richard wagner in making this
theory
massively popular in germany while again
remarkably he was not german
with both goberno and chamberlain
i have to emphasize just how many books
they sold just what a huge
audience they managed to reach and
influence
people who want to tell this story in
terms of intellectual responses
to charles darwin i think there's an
onus on them to prove
just just how many people do you think
read
scientific inquiries that were disputing
charles darwin's book
on the descent of man whether you
attribute this to
charisma on the part of the particular
authors or
muir happenstance the fact is that
chamberlain's work was so popular it was
even being used as a textbook in high
schools
i think that many of us are reluctant
to face up to the fact that a creative
artist
like richard wagner could be really more
influential and more historically and
more politically important
than all of those scientific theorists
working on evolution
put together the reality is richard
wagner in his own time
was more famous and more influential
than michael jackson
and he was more respected more widely
esteemed
as a genius than albert einstein
and what did he do with his wealth and
fame and power and influence
he made joseph degabano and houston
stewart chamberlain
into two of the most influential authors
of their century in the writing of
houston stewart chamberlain
as promoted by wagner i feel we're no
longer talking about
an antecedent to the philosophy of adolf
hitler
we're really looking at the philosophy
of adolf hitler
itself a large part of this book
is a jewish conspiracy theory everything
bad and wrong in the world and the
distinctive trait of the 19th century
foretelling the wars to come
in the 20th century everything
everything is blamed on the jews
the notion of who and what the jews are
and what the conflict is between the
aryan race and the jews remains
spiritual not scientific it's not the
case
that the neo-nazi ideology digressed
from
a scientific worldview into a more
spiritual worldview
on the contrary this was an occult
movement
from first to last that relatively late
in its development
started to embellish its arguments with
the cynical
and not at all convincing use of
scientific factoids
that's why i think it's so important
that we emphasize
that the most popular and most
influential authors in this
earlier phase were these spiritual
superstitious new age ones however you
want to put it we have to look at
later authors like helena blavatsky
guido list and rudolph steiner
as being consistent with that
spiritualistic direction
it's not the case that the spiritual
direction
was a digression from some kind of
pre-established
powerful social darwinist tradition that
was
dominating the political landscape in
germany at that time
on the contrary what year did charles
darwin actually publish
on the origin of species right right
right 1859
and even then that was for a pretty
small audience of
scientifically inclined specialists his
influence and importance of course grew
through the 1860s and then you have on
the descent of man 1871
but it's just not reasonable to
represent
the occult element as if it is a
footnote
in the history of a scientific debate
about evolution on the contrary when
charles darwin was for the first time
struggling to publish and becoming a
public figure of some
importance there already was this
well-established powerful
influential and totally insane spiritual
discourse
that had become tremendously politically
powerful in germany
in large part through the agency of
richard wagner
let's compare this briefly to the
so-called
respectable scholars who played some
kind of role in this same story
these are the guys who get most of the
criticism and they get most of the blame
you know why
because if you criticize max mueller if
you criticize george sorrell if you
criticize rhys davids
you sound respectable yourself you can
turn in a term paper in university and
get an a plus
this is kind of where the uh socially
acceptable discourse
about the antecedents the nazi movement
proto-nazi philosophy that that's where
it lies the problem is of course
none of these people really influenced a
mass
audience in the same way that richard
wagner did in the same way that the
various authors who were gathered into
his circle did
it may seem hard to believe now because
these names have been long since
forgotten
but people like gavino people like
chamberlain they
reached a mass audience likewise nobody
today
even wants to write a term paper
criticizing helena blavatsky
nobody wants to write a term paper
criticizing liszt nobody wants to write
a term paper criticizing rudolf steiner
it wouldn't be respectable
even to engage in the critique of these
figures
because they are regarded as such
crackpots
and yet he is precisely these crackpot
figures who were most
influential in establishing this bizarre
spiritual approach to racism the occult
elements
of the origin of nazi ideology my sling
is editorial explicit material
briefcase show live and stereo flow fill
me